feat(doc): doc updates (#3164)
scaleway/docs-content: dedibox/vps/how-to/connect-vps.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to connect to a Dedibox VPS
  description: This page explains how to connect to a Dedibox VPS
content:
  h1: How to connect to a Dedibox VPS
  paragraph: This page explains how to connect to a Dedibox VPS
tags: vps dedibox ssh connect
dates:
  validation: 2024-05-15
  posted: 2024-05-15
categories:
  - dedibox-vps
---

You can manage your Dedibox VPS by accessing it through SSH.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Dedibox account logged into the [console](https://console.online.net)
- [Created a Dedibox VPS](/dedibox/vps/how-to/create-vps/)

## Connecting from Linux and OSX (Mac)
To connect to your Dedibox VPS from Linux or Mac OSX, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal program on your local machine.

> 2. Enter the command below into the terminal, replacing placeholders with your specific information For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the command below into the terminal, replacing placeholders with your specific information. For example:
```

> 2. Enter the command below into the terminal, replacing placeholders with your specific information. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Type the following command. Make sure that you replace the placeholder with your own value.
```

    ```
    ssh root@<YOUR_DEDIBOX_VPS_IP>
    ```

> 3. If prompted, allow connection to the host by typing yes and pressing Enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If prompted, allow connection to the host by typing `yes` and pressing Enter.
```

> 3. If prompted, allow connection to the host by typing `yes` and pressing Enter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If prompted, allow connection to the host by typing `yes` and press Enter.
```

4. Enter your password and press Enter to log in. You are now connected to your VPS.
    <Message type="tip">

>       * When your VPS is installed using an SSH key, authentication occurs without the need for a password, using your key for identification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * When you install your VPS using an SSH key, you do not need a password for authentication, as your key is used for identification.
```

      * For beginners in the Linux shell, explore our tutorial designed to introduce you to [the first steps of the Linux command line](/tutorials/first-steps-linux-command-line/).
    </Message>

## Connecting from Windows
To connect to your Dedibox VPS from Windows, follow these steps:

1. Download and install [PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html).
    <Message type="note">
       You also have the option to use the [Windows SSH client](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/terminal/tutorials/ssh), which is available on Windows 10 or 11 operating systems.
    </Message>

> 2. Launch PuTTY and enter your Dedibox VPS's IP address in the Hostname field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Launch PuTTY and enter your Dedibox VPS' IP address in the **Hostname** field.
```

> 3. Click Open to establish the connection. If prompted, confirm the connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click **Open** to establish the connection. If prompted, confirm the connection.
```

4. Enter the username root and the user's password. You are now connected to your VPS.
    <Message type="tip">

>       * When your VPS is installed using an SSH key, authentication occurs without the need for a password, using your key for identification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * When you install your VPS using an SSH key, you do not need a password for authentication, as your key is used for identification.
```
